[docs] Document the migration from v3 to v4 (#14741)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/guides/migration-v3/migration-v3.md

# Migration From v3 to v4

<p class="description">Yeah, v4 has been released!</p>

Looking for the v3 docs? [Find them here](https://material-ui.com/versions/).

> This document is a work in progress.
Have you upgraded your site and run into something that’s not covered here?
[Add your changes on GitHub](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/docs/src/pages/guides/migration-v3/migration-v3.md)

## Introduction

This is a reference for upgrading your site from Material-UI v3 to v4.

> While there’s a lot covered here, you probably won’t need to do everything for your site.

Reviewer: `’` vs `'` 😄

We'll do our best to keep things easy to follow, and as sequential as possible so you can quickly get rocking on v4!

## Why you should migrate

This documentation page covers the *how* of migrating from v3 to v4.
The *why* is covered in the release blog post: [*Work in progress, on Medium*](https://medium.com/material-ui).

## Updating Your Dependencies

> The very first thing you will need to do is update your dependencies

Reviewer: I would add a full stop here for consistency but up to you

```suggestion
The very first thing you will need to do is update your dependencies.
```

### Update Material-UI version

> You need update your `package.json` to use the latest version of Material-UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to update your `package.json` to use the latest version of Material-UI.
```

```json
"dependencies": {

>   "@material-ui/core": "^4.0.0-alpha.0"

Reviewer 2: This will be outdated with every alpha release. `yarn add @material-ui/core@next` will be up to date at least till release. Or `yarn add @material-ui/core@^4.0.0-alpha` should work to: The caret should match any alpha version.

}
```

Or run

```sh
npm install @material-ui/core@next

or

yarn add @material-ui/core@next
```

### Update React version

> The minium required version of React was increased from `react@^16.3.0` to `react@^16.8.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required version of React was increased from `react@^16.3.0` to `react@^16.8.0`.
```

> This is allowing us to rely on the [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows us to rely on [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html).
```
Or something similar?

## Handling Breaking Changes

### Styles

- Remove the first option argument of `withTheme()`. The first argument was a placeholder for a potential future option. We have never found a need for it. It's time to remove this argument. It matches the emotion and styled-components API.

  ```diff
  -const DeepChild = withTheme()(DeepChildRaw);
  +const DeepChild = withTheme(DeepChildRaw);
  ```

### Theme

- The `theme.palette.augmentColor()` method no longer performs a side effect on its input color.

> In order to use it correctly, you have to use the output of this function.

Reviewer: This seems strangely worded towards the end, maybe it should be re-worded to something similar to:

```suggestion
To use it correctly, you have to use the returned value.
```

  ```diff
  -const background = { main: color };
  -theme.palette.augmentColor(background);
  +const background = theme.palette.augmentColor({ main: color });

  console.log({ background });
  ```

> ### Typography

Reviewer 3: not sure if this has to be mentioned here, but as I wondered I guess it wouldn't hurt for all the people already on the `nextVariants`. I guess this is now obsolete?

```
typography: {
    useNextVariants: true,
},
```

The same is probably true for `install()` from styles package?

- Remove the deprecated typography variants. You can upgrade by performing the following replacements:
  - display4 => h1
  - display3 => h2
  - display2 => h3
  - display1 => h4
  - headline => h5
  - title => h6
  - subheading => subtitle1
  - body2 => body1
  - body1 (default) => body2 (default)
- Remove the opinionated `display: block` default typograpghy style.
You can use the new `display?: 'initial' | 'inline' | 'block';` property.

> - Rename the `headlineMapping` property to better align with its purpose.

Author: `property` vs `prop` needs to be handled at a global level. I believe we are using *property* everywhere but I don't mind changing it to better match the reactjs.org wordings. cc @mbrookes. (I'm leaving it as is, we can handle it in a different pull request)

> - Rename the `headlineMapping` property to better align with its purpose.

Author: I have looked at reactjs.org in more detail. I believe they always use `prop`/`props` in the React element context. I'm embarrassed.

  ```diff
  -<MuiTypography headlineMapping={headlineMapping}>
  +<MuiTypography variantMapping={variantMapping}>
  ```

### Button

> - Remove the deprecated button flat, raised and fab variants:

Reviewer: The word button seems a bit redundant here, I would remove it or shuffle the sentence around.

```suggestion
- Remove the deprecated flat, raised and fab variants:
```

```suggestion
- Remove the deprecated button variants (flat, raised and fab):
```

  ```diff
  -<Button variant="raised" />
  +<Button variant="contained" />
  ```

  ```diff
  -<Button variant="flat" />
  +<Button variant="text" />
  ```

  ```diff
  -import Button from '@material-ui/core/Button';
  -<Button variant="fab" />
  +import Fab from '@material-ui/core/Fab';
  +<Fab />
  ```

> ### TextField

Reviewer: Should this be InputLabel?

```suggestion
### InputLabel
```

Author: We might accept more breaking change to this group of components.

> - You should be able to override all the styles of the FormLabel component using the css API of the InputLabel component. We do no longer need the `FormLabelClasses` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You should be able to override all the styles of the FormLabel component using the CSS API of the InputLabel component. The `FormLabelClasses` property has been removed.
```

  ```diff
  <InputLabel
  - FormLabelClasses={{ asterisk: 'bar' } }
  + classes={{ asterisk: 'bar' } }
  >
    Foo
  </InputLabel>
  ```

### Grid

- In order to support arbitrary spacing values and to remove the need to mentally county by 8, we are changing the spacing API:

  ```diff
    /**
     * Defines the space between the type `item` component.
     * It can only be used on a type `container` component.
     */
  -  spacing: PropTypes.oneOf([0, 8, 16, 24, 32, 40]),
  +  spacing: PropTypes.oneOf([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]),
  ```

  Going forward, you can use the theme to implement [a custom Grid spacing transformation function](https://material-ui.com/system/spacing/#transformation).

### Table

- We have removed the deprecated numeric property.

  ```diff
  -<TableCell numeric>{row.calories}</TableCell>
  +<TableCell align="right">{row.calories}</TableCell>
  ```
- We have removed the fixed height property on the table row.
    The cell height is computed by the browser using the padding and line-height.

> - The `dense` mode was promoted to a different property:

Reviewer: Not sure if I would use the word promoted here.

Author: moved?

Reviewer: Sounds fine.

  ```diff
  -<TableCell padding="dense" />
  +<TableCell size="small" />
  ```

> - The `TablePagination` component does no longer try to fix invalid (`page`, `count`, `rowsPerPage`) property combinations. It raises a warning instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `TablePagination` component no longer tries to fix invalid (`page`, `count`, `rowsPerPage`) property combinations. It raises a warning instead.
```

### Tabs

- We have removed the `labelContainer`, `label` and `labelWrapped` class keys for simplicity.

> It has allowed us to removed 2 intermediary DOM elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has allowed us to removed 2 intermediary DOM elements.
```
